---
title:  "Status update for 2021.07"
date:   2021-07-29
categories: Thoughts
---

Amidst all the struggle and nothing new worth sharing, I thought I would put a status update to toss some fuel on this blog.
In short, I finally got the second dose of the Pfizer vaccine and I also started working on some projects.

The vaccination experience was way more painful than the first one, but I was able to recover quite well after the first night.
The first night was utterly terrifying.

I went to sleep at 9 PM as it was extremely challenging to keep my eyes open.
I didn't take any pills yet since the doctor instructed to take it when the symptoms arrive.
This could have been a mistake, but I woke up at 1 AM to my whole body shivering.
My body was shaking, and I felt cold with a mild headache even though the room was not even remotely close to being cold. 
I was sweating, but I still wanted to crawl into the blankets to keep myself warm.

What I was experiencing was probably fever and aches all over my body.
Even though my body was getting sweaty and making it very uncomfortable to sleep, I wanted to sleep.
I was just too tired to get out of bed, search the cabinet for pills, get a cup of water, take the pills, and come back to bed.
At that moment, I was lazy like a sloth.
I tried to force myself to sleep.
I even tried meditating by controlling my breath.
That's when I realized I was out of breath.
Out of fear, I got out of bed immediately and took the pills.
Probably few minutes have passed, I was back to sleep.

In the morning, the conditions were a lot better.
Just a mild fever and aches.
I drank a lot of water to cope with the fever, which seemed to work.
After lunch, I took another pill and a quality nap.
I really think sleeping might be one of the best methods to heal yourself.
After an hour nap, I was almost back to normal.
10/10 would recommend.

Today is my second day since the vaccination, and here I am back to coding.
As of late, I've been really slacking with the projects.
I might have underestimated the scale of the projects, and now I am afraid to work on it.

One of the projects that I've been working on is a *simple* [XMPP client/server](https://github.com/thinkty/sxc).
It was supposed to be simple, until it wasn't.
At the planning stage, I did my research and prepared resources for this project, and I thought I did quite a good job on it.
However, I should have expected to face many hurdles as possible since I was basically going into the dark side of the moon.
I intended this project to be step for me to learn modern c++ features and I sure am learning a lot!
As I progressed with the project, I realized that the project was too big for me to handle.
So currently, I'm trying to focus on the client part and test it with other XMPP servers.

In addition, I also started a side project: [gundam-uc](https://github.com/thinkty/gundam-uc) which is a simple (I seem to use simple a lot and incorrectly) React website to show the storyline of the famous science fiction franchise: Gundam.
I started this project as a break from the XMPP one.
Some might see it as an escape, and they are right.
However, this was not an escape.
I remembered another reason why I started the XMPP client/server project: I didn't want to deal with CSS anymore.

> You could not live with your own failure. Where did that bring you? Back to me. - Thanos

Put the memes aside, I think this will be a great time.